Project Stage II — Statistical Analysis
Reload the newdataset you saved in stage I, this stage we will explore statistical analysis and propose Hypothesis questions.
Task 1- Descriptive Statistics (20 points)
Review the features you explored in stage I (at least 3 features per team, at least two features are numerical - continuous/discrete); if there is no numerical feature, revisit the original dataset and select a suitable and meaningful numerical feature. Categorical features can still be included, but they must be encoded into numeric form (e.g., gender → 0/1)

a. Cacluate the selected features mean, median, variance, skewness and kurtosis. (10 points)

b.Identify the type of data: categorical or numerical. If numerical, is it continuous or discrete? Summarize your findings. (10 points)

 
Task 2 - Distribution Fitting (20 points)
a. Select one suitable numerical feature from task 1. Propose a theoretical distribution (Normal, Binomial, Poisson, Exponential, Geometric, etc.) and explain why you choose it. (6 points)

b. Plot histogram of your feature, overlay a smooth curve of the fitted theoretical distribution (10 points). Discuss how your data fits the distribution. (4 points)

 
Task 3 - Point Estimate (20 points)
a. Randomly select 100 samples from the feature selected in Task 2, caculate the sample mean and variance. Compare with the population mean and variance. (10 points)

b. Repeat the random sampling 3 times and show how sample mean/variance vary due to randomness. Discuss your findings. (10 points)

 
Task 4 - Correlation Analysis (20 points)
Among the features in task 1, calculate the correlation coefficients. Use a heatmap or correlation matrix for visualization.

 
Task 5 - Hypothsis Question Propose. (20 points)
Formulate 3 hypothsis questions based on your whole data. Choose 3 different variables to compare against.

For example: Does higher employment data lead to higher covid case? The variable here is employment data.

Make sure your hypothsis questions are meaningful, since we will test on it in next stage.

 
Upload your notebook in Github and a pdf/html version in canvas. Make sure all the figures are clearly shown in your submission.

Prepare slide for the mid-term presentation, all teams need to present the first 2 stages of your project. Each group will be assigned at most 15 minutes.
